# How-to-Write-an-R-Package-Wrapping-a-NodeJS-Module

The details of the codeset and plots are included in the attached Microsoft Word Document (.docx) file in this repository. 
You need to view the file in "Read Mode" to see the contents properly after downloading the same.

About NodeJS Packages
=========================

There are two ways to install NodeJS packages: globally and locally.

The idea with local dependencies is that when writing your application
or your script, you bundle inside one big folder everything needed to
make that piece of JavaScript code run. That way, you can have various
versions of a Node module on the same computer without one interfering
with another. On a production server, that also means that when
publishing your app, you don’t have to care about machine-wide versions,
or about putting an app to prod with a version that might break another
application.

I love the way NodeJS allows to handle dependencies, but that’s the
subject for another day.

Node JS inside an R package
================================

To create an app or cli in NodeJS, you will be following these steps:

    Creating a new folder
    Inside this folder, run npm init -y (the -y pre-fills all the
    fields) ; this function creates a package.json file
    Create a JavaScript script (app.js, index.js, whatever.js)
    which will contain your JavaScript logic ; this file can take
    command lines arguments that will be processed inside the script
    Install external modules with npm install modulename: this
    function adds elements to package.json, creates/add to
    package-lock.json, and the whole modulename and its deps are
    downloaded and put inside a node_modules/ folder inside your
    project

Once your software is built, be it an app or a cli, you will be sharing
to the world the package.json, package-lock.json, and all the files
that are required to run the tool. But not the node_modules/ folder,
which will be generated by the user.

